# CS499-ePortfolio

## Professional Self-Assesment
#### Discuss how completing your coursework throughout the program and developing the ePortfolio has helped you showcase your strengths, shape your professional goals and values, and prepare to enter or become more employable in the computer science field.
This project has demonstrated my ability to expand on a program to make it more versatile as well as my ability to adapt and handle challenges. First, expanding a project beyond its original scope. It is important for computer scientists to be able to analyze a project and then come up with ways to optimize or improve it. Often times trying to come up with a solution from scratch takes more time and effort than building upon a foundation. While this can be a good thing, it takes practice to be able to read, understand and then work on and improve existing code. This can present many different challenges than creating a project from scratch. I ran into some of these problems within this project which I believe was a good demonstration of my ability to adapt to and handle difficulties within development. Different errors and bugs that I did not understand pushed me to communicate to others what the project was, what the issues that I was running into were, and then consider possible solutions. This helped me to grow in communicating technical ideas. I unfortunately was not able to resolve all the issues within the given timeframe but was able to adapt and have a working project by the due date, even if it was not the one I originally was hoping for.
#### Summarize and introduce how your artifacts fit together and inform the portfolio as a whole.
The first artifact was taking the project from a jupyter notebook file and turning into a python file. I also made it so that it took a json file for input instead of reading a single hard-coded maze every time. This demonstrates my skills in software engineering and design. It shows my ability to understand a project in its entirety and my ability to translate it into a different format. It also shows my ability to identify areas of a project that could be improved and then improve those spots.
The second artifact was to create a function that generated a random maze while making sure it was solvable and then storing it in a json file. This demonstrates my ability to create and use algorithms. Just creating a function that created random mazes would not have lead to good training as many of those mazes could have had no possible solutions. 
The third artifact was to capture some of the training data within a database and then create a simple html page to display that information within a table. While this part of the code was functional, I believe it was the part that had the most room for improvement. If you continue to read I will explain what happened but I ended up not having nearly as much time for this section as I would have liked. I was still able to demonstrate my ability to create a database, capture relevant data, and then create a way to access that data in a way that is easy to understand.

## Snr-Project File
This is my original project. It was originally a juptyer notebook which I worked on within an online lab environment for one of my classes. In preparing the project for this class I downloaded it from the lab environment to my own machine and made it a normal python file instead of a jupyter notebook. Within these changes I ran into a lot of issues with preparing the dependencies for the code. Specifically I ran into a lot of issues with getting the right version of TensorFlow which was needed for the algorithm to work. After dead-end followed by dead-end I came to the conclusion that I was not going to be able to fix this problem within the timeline I had.

## Snr-Project-backup File
This backup project is a proof-of-concept project. I went online and found a different maze solver and got that running on my machine. Once that was done I implemented my 3 enhancements into the new project. The enhancements ended up being a little more simple due to the fact that the time spent on implementing them in the new project was heavily restricted. The database and display functions especially, while functional, have a lot of ways I would have liked to improve them if I had more time.

### How to run the project:
1. Make sure all the needed libraries/dependencies are downloaded.
This project uses tensorflow, numpy, matplotlib, json, and sqlite3.
2. Make sure you are in the top level directory of the project which is the file named SnrProject-backup.
3. Run python3 maze-solver.py in the terminal.
This file needs to be run first as it will create the database file that display-results.py will reference.
4. Run python3 display-results.py in the terminal.
This will give a link to a simple html page that displays some data from the past training sessions.
